# v1.3.0: Release notes

The v1.3.0 release includes some exciting new functionality and architectural improvements.

Upgrading from v1.2.0 to v1.3.0 requires the upgrade [Migration Notes](v1.2.-to-v1.3.-migration-notes/) to be followed precisely.

The core release is to be used in conjunction with a forked country configuration release v1.3.0

### Major Features

OpenCRVS 1.3 represents a major release of new functional features and technical improvements. The following explains in more detail each major feature that has been included in this release.

#### Marriage registration - beta&#x20;

In this release we have introduced new vital event forms for marriage.  The default form captures bride and grooms details, place of event details, API search for marriage events, informant information for up to 2 witnesses, signature capture for all participants, and a bespoke marriage certificate.

Outstanding marriage related functionality to be built includes:  searching for marriage events in the UI, marriage performance analytics, configurable marriage fees, marriage corrections and a notification of intent to marry form.

Due to the outstanding functionality yet to be developed, we are releasing marriage registration in "beta", therefore not for production use. You can configure marriage registration on in development environments for proof of concept testing.

#### Track issuance&#x20;

A new workqueue and business process has been introduced to track that certificates have actually been issued to individuals.  In this way we realise the benefit of proving that paper certificates get into the hands of beneficiaries, and where we understand areas where collection rates may be low.

#### Verify a certificate via QR code

You can now add a QR code to every certificate and this QR code can be used by any individual with rights to the system to be able to verify that a certificate is genuine.  The QR code contains a unique identifier, the "**recordId**", which via the Record Search API can also be programatically validated by trusted external systems, returning vital event records associated.

#### Informant signature&#x20;

It is possible to configure informant signature capture on and off for birth and death events.  By default marriage events require the participant and witness signatures.

#### Email notifications&#x20;

In previous versions of OpenCRVS it was only possible to use SMS or WhatsApp as a notification delivery method to staff and beneficiaries.  Now it is possible to use Email.

#### Business intelligence dashboards&#x20;

Configurable analytics dashboards with rich information visualization has been introduced, powered by the OpenSource Business Intelligence engine [Metabase](https://www.metabase.com/).

#### De-duplication update&#x20;

The entire de-duplication user experience process has been upgraded, focusing on an optimised user experience to be able to quickly review potential duplicate records side by side along with supporting documentation.  The de-duplication algorithm is powered by [Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/) and thanks to the power of that system that highlights duplicates in real-time, registrars can easily approve, override or reject the record instantly.

#### Configurable user roles, notification & login backgrounds (...and many more)

Many new application settings are now configurable, such as user role titles can be entirely customised even though they are based on common existing permissions.  Individual informant notifications can be configured on or off and the login application can be branded to suit your country.

#### MOSIP Integration v2 - E-Signet&#x20;

Our close collaboration with [MOSIP](https://www.mosip.io/) continues in this release with integration from our vital event forms directly into the[ E-Signet](https://docs.esignet.io/) digital identity authentication and consent mechanism.  Using MOSIP [E-Signet](https://docs.esignet.io/) integration, parents and informants can have their IDs validated, and consent to share demographic information to pre-populate the registration form.  By combining OpenCRVS and MOSIP

#### Form configuration refactor - deprecation of the form configuration UI

Responding to country requests to make form configuration more flexible we decided to revert back to a code only approach thus deprecating our form configuration UI.  To read more about why we made this decision, refer to our documentation [step 3.2.7 Configure declaration forms](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.7-configure-declaration-forms/)

#### API validation

We have improved the API validation for all of our interoperability endpoints and provided extra parameters to improve the power and flexibility of our APIs.

#### Dependency upgrades&#x20;

Many dependencies have been upgraded, improving performance, resilience and resolving dependabot security alerts.  Our Node version has been upgraded.

#### Farajaland refactor (Infrastructure files / Docker secrets / seeding / api / form)&#x20;

Our country configuration package has been entirely refactored. &#x20;

Highlights include:

* Clear directory structure
* Configurable infrastructure and deploy scripts for use on any infrastructure without the requirement to fork opencrvs-core
* Documentation in the code
* More robust API endpoints
* Flexible form configuration via TypeScript - abstraction of complex utilities
* Rapid database seeding process
* Removal of core team internal tools such as cypress tests and data-generator

#### Performance improvements&#x20;

Many bugs have been resolved and these are individually listed in the Github release notes.  Significant improvements have been made to download speed when assigning a record.



### Breaking changes - core

{% hint style="info" %}
Migration scripts will automatically upgrade your OpenCRVS v1.2 data to be supported in v1.3.  Breaking changes that are not supported by automated migrations, or that require manual steps are listed below.  Follow the [Migration Notes](v1.2.-to-v1.3.-migration-notes/) to migrate between versions of core
{% endhint %}

* Your countryconfig repository needs to be migrated to the new directory structure.
* Form configuration UI deprecation requires 1.2 users to export their form via JSON and convert to TypeScript using the functions that we provide.
* We have upgraded the password hashing mechanism therefore all users will be required to change their password on first login after the ugrade completes.



### Breaking changes - country configuration

{% hint style="warning" %}
The country confguration repository opencrvs-farajaland has been entirely refactored. Please contact us at [team@opencrvs.org](mailto:team@opencrvs.org) if you need any help rebasing changes in this repository.
{% endhint %}

* You will be required to copy over any changes you made to opencrvs-core infrastructure scripts e.g.: Ansible / deploy.sh into the countryconfig repository.  Hopefully you will appreciate that being able to manage all infrastructure scripts inside the countryconfig repository is a more future-proofed solution than forking opencrvs-core

### Documentation updates

The following sections in our documentation have been updated due to the requirements of the new features.

[2 Gather requirements](../../setup/2.-gather-requirements.md)

3.2 Set-up your own country configuration

3.3 Set-up a server hosted environment

4 Functional configuration

### **Can you help me migrate my previous OpenCRVS version?**

If you are migrating from an earlier version and if you are working on behalf of a government that is considering implementing OpenCRVS, we can help you to upgrade.

Please contact us at [team@opencrvs.org](mailto:team@opencrvs.org)

### **The following content keys have been added that require translation**

```
"buttons.create": "Create",

```

