# 4.3.2 HTTPS & Networking

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/eb1aeFstOGg" %}

Watch the videos above to understand the OpenCRVS network and how TLS is configured in OpenCRVS servers&#x20;

### Domain A records

Using your domain management system, A records will need to be created for all the services which are publicly exposed for **qa, production & staging** environments.

Either use a wildcard or create individual A records for your chosen environment's domain name, with a TTL of 1 hour that forwards the URL to your **manager server node's** external IP address.

#### Option 1: Wildcard required A Records:

{% hint style="info" %}
A total of 6 A Records are required for this option, 2 for each environment's domain: **qa, production & staging**
{% endhint %}

_\<your\_domain>_

_\*.\<your\_domain>_

#### Option 2: Individual A Records:

{% hint style="info" %}
A total of 42 A Records are required for this option, 14 for each environment's domain: **qa, production & staging**
{% endhint %}

_\<your\_domain>_

_auth.\<your\_domain>_

_config.\<your\_domain>_

_countryconfig.\<your\_domain>_

_documents.\<your\_domain>_

_metabase.\<your\_domain>_

_minio.\<your\_domain>_

_minio-console.\<your\_domain>_

_ui-kit.\<your\_domain>_

_gateway.\<your\_domain>_

_kibana.\<your\_domain>_

_login.\<your\_domain>_

_register.\<your\_domain>_

_webhooks.\<your\_domain>_



### TLS / SSL certificates

There are a number of ways you can configure TLS / SSL certificates for OpenCRVS.  The options are explained in subsequent pages and all methods must be compatible with [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/overview/).

A free approach is to use LetsEncrypt.  However LetsEncrypt certificates must validate and refresh every 3 months.  When installing OpenCRVS behind a VPN, your VPN and DNS settings must be configured to enable this, and some techniques may not work in your network. &#x20;

Alternatively you could consider purchasing a long term SSL certificate and manually replacing the static .crt & .key files every 1, 2 or 3 years depending on it's lifetime.  The SSL certificates that you purchase must support the subdomains and each environment's domain: **qa, production & staging.**  You may opt for a single,  multi-domain, wildcard SSL certificate that covers all of your domains regardless of the number of subdomain levels.  You need to pay close attention to your domain to understand which SSL certificate to purchase.

The following "recipes" are not meant to be exhaustive, but simply describe some examples you may wish to follow.  Every country will have unique network, domain name & management considerations to pay attention to.

For each recipe, search the [docker-compose.{YOUR ENVIRONMENT}-deploy.yml](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/tree/develop/infrastructure) files for each environment to find the block below, to amend configurations for each environment: **qa, production & staging.**  Alternatively, you can remove each individual block and have a single block in [docker-compose-depoy.yml](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/blob/dfbf4c6a0b2962015d152c2adb4a0f8bc6038bdd/infrastructure/docker-compose.deploy.yml#L13) for a generic approach applied to all environments.

```
traefik:
```

### LetsEncrypt HTTPS Challenge

Traefik config is required to be edited in your docker-compose files for your environment listed [here](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/tree/develop/infrastructure), in order to configure the LetsEncrypt HTTPS challenge mechanism for SSL cert generation.

```
- --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.email=<your email address>
- --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.storage=acme.json
- --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.caserver=https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
- --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.httpchallenge.entrypoint=web
- --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.httpchallenge=true
```

###

### LetsEncrypt DNS Challenge

Traefik config is required to be edited in your docker-compose files for your environment in order to configure the LetsEncrypt DNS challenge mechanism for SSL cert generation in **production** or **staging** environments.  LetsEncrypt supports APIs for the following providers:

{% embed url="https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/acme/#providers" %}

In this example, Google Domains is the configured provider.  The environment variable GOOGLE\_DOMAINS\_ACCESS\_TOKEN is manually added to the Github environment as a secret.

<pre><code><strong>environment:
</strong> - GOOGLE_DOMAINS_ACCESS_TOKEN=${GOOGLE_DOMAINS_ACCESS_TOKEN}
command:
 - --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.dnschallenge=true
 - --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.dnschallenge.provider=googledomains
 - --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.email=&#x3C;your email address>
 - --certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme.storage=acme.json
</code></pre>



### Pre-existing TLS certificates

Traefik config is required to be edited in your docker-compose files for your environment in order to use pre-existing TLS certificates. &#x20;

1. Once your environment is provisioned, manually add your certificate files into the /data/traefik/certs directory on your server so that they are picked up.
2. Create a file named certs.yaml in the infrastructure/traefik folder like this:&#x20;

```
tls:
  stores:
    default:
      defaultCertificate:
        certFile: /etc/certs/<your combined leaf, intermediate & root, certfile>.crt
        keyFile: /etc/certs/<your cert private key file>.key
  certificates:
    - certFile: /etc/certs/<your combined leaf, intermediate & root, certfile>.crt
      keyFile: /etc/certs/<your cert private key file>.key
      stores:
        - default
```

3. Use the Traefik config below to access the cert.yaml file, remove any lines that start with "--certificatesresolvers.certResolver.acme" :

```
volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
      - /data/traefik/certs:/certs
      - /opt/opencrvs/infrastructure/traefik/certs.yaml:/etc/traefik/certs.yaml
    command:
      - --providers.file.directory=/etc/traefik
      - --providers.file.watch=true
```

4. If the certificate is different for each environment, you will have to edit the "Provision" Github Actions to write the contents of the .crt & .key files in the /data/traefik/certs directory on your server from new Github environment secrets you will manually have to create.  In the file infrastructure/server-setup/tasks/traefik.yml, add these lines at the end of the file:

```
- name: Create crt file with variable content
  copy:
    dest: "/data/traefik/certs/cert.crt"
    content: |
      {{ssl_crt}}
    owner: root
    group: application
    mode: 0644
  when: ssl_crt is defined and ssl_crt | length > 0

- name: Create key file with variable content
  copy:
    dest: "/data/traefik/certs/cert.key"
    content: |
      {{ssl_key}}
    owner: root
    group: application
    mode: 0600
  when: ssl_key is defined and ssl_key | length > 0
```

5. Add these 2 new Github environment secrets SSL\_CRT & SSL\_KEY to the "Set variables for ansible in production environments" step in the file .github/workflows/provision.yml

```
ssl_crt: ${{ secrets.SSL_CRT }}
ssl_key: ${{ secrets.SSL_KEY }}
```
